---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Federated learning

**Speaker:** Ebba Ekblom, 

**Abstract:** The training of Machine Learning models often requires vast amounts of data, which traditionally has been stored at a central server to train a single model. Today, data is generally abundant, but due to privacy concerns it can be hard to gather it centrally. Thus, Federated Learning was proposed in 2016 as a training procedure that aims to benefit from aggregating models trained on many private local datasets, without the need to share the actual data. ,,,,time,
,,,,time,
In this presentation I will talk about Federated Learning, and in particular when it is applied to the training of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). GANs are generative models that were first introduced in 2014 and have since then shown to have great capacity to generate realistic data. However, as for many other machine learning techniques, they require large amounts of data, and training can often be unstable leading to issues such as mode collapse. How to adapt these models for federated learning is an ongoing research topic, and this presentation will be an overview of where the field is at today, the existing challenges and what interesting future research directions might be.

**About the speaker:** Ebba is a junior researcher at RISE, where she has been working on Federated Learning for Generative Adversarial Networks since 2021. She has a MSc in Engineering Mathematics from Chalmers University of Technology and her master&#x27;s thesis focused on generative modelling of microwave data for stroke detection.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2021-12-02 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2021-12-09, 15:00: Arman Rahbar, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-12-16, 15:00: Stephane D'ascoli, , **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-13, 15:00: Andrew Jesson, OATML, Oxford Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-20, 15:00: Jon Nordby, Soundsensing, **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

