---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** An overview of various acoustic scene analysis topics

**Speaker:** Tuomas Virtanen, Tampere University of Technology

**Abstract:** Our everyday acoustic environments contain lots of sounds that carry information about events happening the environment. Automatic analysis of acoustic scenes has several applications, and has therefore attracted lots of research recently. This talk will first present core machine learning methods based on deep neural networks for acoustic scene classification, sound event detection, and sound event localization. Since data used to train systems plays a huge role in their development, it will also discuss what kind of data should be used to address these tasks, how such data can be obtained. Then the talk will discuss advanced machine learning topics which deal with limitations posed by training data as well as detailed analysis of acoustic scenes, including audio captioning, active learning, zero-shot learning, and domain adaptation for acoustic scene analysis.

**About the speaker:** Tuomas Virtanen (Fellow, IEEE) received the Doctoral degree from the Tampere University of Technology, Tampere, Finland, in 2006. He is currently a Professor with Tampere University, Tampere, Finland. He is known for his pioneering work on single-channel sound source separation using nonnegative matrix factorization and computational analysis of sounds in everyday environments. He has authored more than 200 scientific publications on these topics. He was the recipient of the IEEE Signal Processing Society 2012 Best Paper Award, and ERC 2014 Starting Grant “Computational Analysis of Everyday Soundscapes.”

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2021-11-04 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2021-11-11, 15:00: Diarmuid Corcoran, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-11-18, 15:00: Martin Willbo, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-11-25, 15:00: Maria Priisalu, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-12-02, 15:00: Ebba Ekblom, , **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

