---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Few-shot learning

**Speaker:** Martin Willbo, 

**Abstract:** Using machine learning methods for analysing recordings from different soundscapes are of great interest and a research area which can potentially lead to many societal benefits. Such tools could be of use in many different application areas, from city planning to research in biodiversity. For example, giving researchers an increased ability to estimate the number of individuals belonging to a species in the recording environment. Detecting different sound events in audio is one of the problems of soundscape analysis. However, for many of these different areas labelled training data is a scarcity. Few-shot learning is a highly promising paradigm for sound event detection since it is aimed to learn or define a model from just a few examples. This is a technique which previously have been mostly studied for other domains such as image classification but has gained more traction as a method for sound event detection with for example the DCASE challenges. In this talk, we will see some common approaches to few-shot learning and how they can be used to train models for sound event detection. In addition to this, some areas of future research are discussed for how to improve upon current techniques.

**About the speaker:** Martin Willbo recently graduated from Chalmers University of Technology with a master's in data science and Artificial Intelligence. Martin is employed as a junior researcher at RISE working on few-shot learning for sound event detection.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2021-11-25: Maria Priisalu, 
* 2021-12-02: Ebba Ekblom, 
* 2021-12-09: Arman Rahbar, 
* 2021-12-16: Stephane D'ascoli, 

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

