---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Semantically Reasoning Pedestrian Models in Generative Autonomous Vehicle Testing.

**Speaker:** Maria Priisalu, 

**Abstract:** There exist several datasets for developing self-driving car methodologies. Manually collected datasets impose inherent limitations on the variability of test cases and it is particularly difficult to acquire challenging scenarios, e.g. ones involving collisions with pedestrians. A way to alleviate this is to consider automatic generation of safety-critical scenarios for autonomous vehicle (AV) testing. However, there is a gap between state of the art pedestrian motion models and the pedestrian models used to generate safety-critical scenarios for AV testing. Previous approaches for scenario generation use heuristic pedestrian behavior models, which limits the realism of the induced test scenarios. In this talk I will describe a framework for AV testing, which is not limited to using heuristic pedestrian models. This framework is described in detail in our recent paper Generating Scenarios with Diverse Pedestrian Behaviors for Autonomous Vehicle Testing, presented at CoRL 2021. More specifically, this talk consists of two parts. In the first part I will provide an overview of recent pedestrian forecasting models. I then present our recently proposed Semantic Pedestrian Locomotion model that learns to forecast pedestrian motion conditioned on the scene semantics (described in more detail in our ACCV 2020 paper Semantic Synthesis of Pedestrian Locomotion). In the second part, I will begin by giving an overview of existing AV testing methods, which is followed by a presentation of our recently proposed method for AV test case generation that utilizes state of the art pedestrian motion models (presented at CoRL 2021).

**About the speaker:** Maria Priisalu is a PhD Student in the Computational Imaging Group at Lund University since 2016. She is interested in deep and reinforcement learning with applications to visual problems. Her research focuses on visually reasoning pedestrian models in applications to autonomous vehicles. Prior to her PhD studies Maria obtained her MSc. degree at Lund University in Computer Science. During her MSc studies she attended an internship at the CERN, a fellowship at CalTech, and exchange studies at Georgia Institute of Technology and Zhejiang University. 

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2021-11-25 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2021-12-02, 15:00: Ebba Ekblom, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-12-09, 15:00: Arman Rahbar, , **digital and physical: **
* 2021-12-16, 15:00: Stephane D'ascoli, , **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-13, 15:00: Andrew Jesson, OATML, Oxford Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group, **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

