---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Online Learning of Decision Trees

**Speaker:** Arman Rahbar, 

**Abstract:** In this talk, I am going to talk about the problem of learning a decision tree online from streaming data. We will focus on two different methods to tackle this problem. The first one is called VFDT (Very Fast Decision Tree learner) which employs Heoffding bound to guarantee that the resulting tree is asymptotically nearly identical to that of a batch decision tree learner. One important limitation of VFDT is that it assumes all feature values of data points are always available. To address this limitation, I will present a new formulation of the problem which enables us to use posterior sampling to learn efficiently from data. 

**About the speaker:** Arman Rahbar is a WASP Ph.D. student at Chalmers University of Technology and is working under the supervision of Prof. Morteza Chehreghani. He received his bachelor&#x27;s and master&#x27;s degrees in Computer Engineering from Sharif University of Technology and Tehran Polytechnic, respectively. Arman&#x27;s research is mainly focused on representation learning problems that need to deal with the lack of sufficient available information. 

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2021-12-09 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2021-12-16, 15:00: Stephane D'ascoli, , **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-13, 15:00: Andrew Jesson, OATML, Oxford Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-20, 15:00: Jon Nordby, Soundsensing, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-27, 15:00: Aleksis Pirinen, RISE, **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

