---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Long Short-Term Memory networks (LSTMs) for rainfall-runoff modeling

**Speaker:** Frederik Kratzert, Google

**Abstract:** In this talk, I will talk about my research over the last few years on LSTMs for rainfall-runoff modelling. We will cover a short introduction about the model, talk about why it is such a good fit for this application, and I will share insights from various studies of the recent past. Additionally, we will revisit the best practices that you should follow, in case you are interested in applying LSTMs in your research/work.

**About the speaker:** Frederik did his Master in environmental engineering and his PhD in machine learning with a focus on the intersection of these two fields. After his PhD, Frederik joined Google as a visiting faculty researcher, where he is working in Google's Flood Forecasting team, building a global flood warning system.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-11-17: *Robust Risk Minimization for Statistical Learning from Corrupted Data*, Muhammad Osama, Aptiv
* 2022-11-24: *Mapping and Localization for AR*, Viktor Larsson, LTH
* 2022-12-01: *Auto Arborist: Towards Mapping Urban Forests Across North America*, Sara Beery, MIT
* 2022-12-08: *Geographical intelligence*, William Lidberg, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

