---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Molecular Property Prediction Using Few-Shot Learning Techniques

**Speaker:** Megan Stanley, Microsoft Research Cambridge

**Abstract:** A widely applied technique in early drug discovery to identify novel active molecules against a protein target is modelling quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSAR). However, small datasets are ubiquitous in drug discovery as data generation is expensive and can be restricted for ethical reasons (e.g. in vivo experiments). Therefore, QSAR prediction is known to be extremely challenging, as available measurements of compound activities range in the low dozens or hundreds. However, there are often large databases of related datasets, each with a small number of datapoints, opening up the opportunity for few-shot learning after pretraining on a substantially larger corpus of data. While many few-shot learning methods were developed and evaluated in the computer-vision domain, we demonstrate that application in the explicitly graph-structured molecular domain provides an increase in QSAR modelling performance. In particular, through use of a purpose-made few-shot learning dataset of molecules and evaluation procedure, we are able to compare the performance of a number of few-shot and meta-learning methods against standard single-task learners. We show that prototypical networks in particular are valuable in this domain, and that model-agnostic meta-learning is capable of AUPRC enhancement in the very low-data regime. We also implement a range of pre-trained, single-task and multitask baselines, and seek to encourage further development of methods to address tasks with very limited data availability.

**About the speaker:** Megan Stanley is a researcher at Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK, currently working on applications of machine learning in the sciences and with particular interest in few-shot learning and generalization. She graduated from her PhD in Physics at the University of Cambridge in 2017.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-03-10 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-03-17: Magnus Röding, RISE
* 2022-03-24: Lovisa Hagström, Chalmers
* 2022-03-31: Martin Trimmel, Lund University
* 2022-04-07: Kyunghyun Cho, NYU

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

