---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Head in the clouds? Why decision making is hard.

**Speaker:** Andrew Jesson, OATML, Oxford Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group

**Abstract:** How will a patient&#x27;s health be affected by taking a given medication? How will a user&#x27;s question be answered by a google search result? How will cloud reflectively and precipitation be influenced by a local emissions policy? Making effective decisions depends on being able to answer such questions. Answering such questions requires knowledge about the causal effect that a decision (medication, search result, emissions policy) has in a specific context. And knowing the effect of the decision requires knowledge about the context. In this talk, I will review recent collaborative works that aim to: 1) quantify our uncertainties about decision outcomes at the individual/unit, group, or population level [JMSG2020, JMGS2021]; 2) understand decision making under such uncertainty [JMGS2021]; and 3) how we can learn more about the world in order to reduce our uncertainty [JTvAKSG2021]. I will also discuss recent applied work looking at using causal models to understand Aerosol-Cloud Interactions [JMDDGS2021].

**About the speaker:** Andrew is a DPhil student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Oxford. He works in the Applied and Theoretical Machine Learning Group (OATML) under the supervision of Yarin Gal. Prior to joining the group, he was a program manager and researcher at  Imagia in Montreal. He obtained his undergraduate and master’s degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at McGill University, working in the Probabilistic Vision Group (PVG) under the supervision of Tal Arbel. His research focuses on personalized decision making under uncertainty in causal-effect estimates. Specifically, he is interested in quantifying, integrating, and reducing uncertainty arising from the relaxation of causal assumptions.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-01-13 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-01-20, 15:00: Jon Nordby, Soundsensing, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-01-27, 15:00: Aleksis Pirinen, RISE, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-02-03, 15:00: Josephine Sullivan, KTH, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-02-10, 15:00: Jerk Rönnols, RISE, **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

