---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Monitoring noise, machinery and processes using sound and machine learning

**Speaker:** Jon Nordby, Soundsensing

**Abstract:** Many physical events and processes create sound, often in the hearable spectrum. This makes sound an interesting source of information about such processes. By combining sound sensors with machine learning, these can be tracked and analyzed. Here we will discuss how we have applied this combination for several different usecases, including: Noise Monitoring of shooting ranges and construction sites, Process Monitoring of coffeebean cracking during roasting, and Condition Monitoring of equipment such as pumps and ventilation. We will discuss some of the techniques in use, such as Convolutional and Recurrent Neural Networks, spectrogram pre-processing, and edge computing on embedded devices and microcontrollers. We will also discuss some of the challenges that come when deploying continious monitoring, such as data collection, heavily imbalanced data and preserving privacy.

**About the speaker:** Jon is a Machine Learning Engineer that specializes in audio and IoT applications. He has a Master in Data Science and a Bachelor in Electronics Engineering, and has worked as a software engineer in electronics and web projects for 10 years. Since 2019 he is the Head of Machine Learning and Data Science at Soundsensing, a provider of IoT sensors for sound with built Machine Learning capabilities.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-01-20 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-01-27: Aleksis Pirinen, RISE
* 2022-02-03: Josephine Sullivan, KTH
* 2022-02-10: Jerk Rönnols, RISE
* 2022-02-24: Dan Stowell, Tilburg University

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

