---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Geographical intelligence

**Speaker:** William Lidberg, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences

**Abstract:** Most of the Nordic countries are covered in forest and there is a long history of large-scale forestry in the region. The role of forests in society has become more critical with higher demands for energy, raw materials, and ecosystem services such as carbon storage, clean water, and recreation. In order to meet global sustainability goals and enable social change, there is a great need to plan land use with the environment in mind and take into account climate change and social values. One of the most important tools for successful sustainable forest management is correct and accurate maps as a basis for decision-making.

With satellite maps and Google Maps, it's easy to think we have all the maps we need. In fact, the Swedish terrain is poorly mapped. If you walk in the forest, it doesn't take long until you find a stream, a wetland, or cultural remains that are not marked on any maps. However, with the help of airborne laser scans, we can now peer through the canopy cover and get a clear view of the forest floor. My research focuses on using AI to map the forest landscape but I also ask questions about social and ethical challenges that come with the implementation of these maps. The Swedish system is built on trust in government agencies. What happens with that trust when management decisions are made based on AI-derived maps?

**About the speaker:** William is an assistant professor in the department of forest ecology and sustainable management at the Swedish university of agricultural sciences. He is leading an interdisciplinary research group that combines soil science, hydrology, remote sensing, archaeology, and AI with social science to solve problems in forest management. William collaborates with multiple Swedish agencies to quickly take ideas from research to implementation on a national scale. 

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-12-08 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-01-12: Mark D. Plumbley, University of Surrey
* 2023-01-19: Giulia Fanti, Carnegie Mellon University
* 2023-01-26: Lena Voita, FAIR
* 2023-02-02: Vincent Szolnoky, Chalmers University of Technology

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

