---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Microstructures and mass transport in porous materials - combining physics, statistics, and machine learning

**Speaker:** Magnus Röding, RISE

**Abstract:** Understanding the microstructure of a porous material and how it relates to its mass transport properties (for example diffusion of particles, or fluid flow) is crucial for designing better materials. One example is coating layers on pharmaceutical pellets for controlled release of compounds, another is liquid transport through fibrous media in hygiene products. We combine e.g. image analysis, statistics, numerical simulations, and machine learning to characterize materials and to predict and understand their properties. In this talk, we will focus on the usefulness of machine learning in this field and discuss a number of example cases. First, semantic segmentation of 3D image data from focused ion beam scanning electron microscopy (FIB-SEM). Second, predicting parameters including the diffusion coefficient of fluorescent particles using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). Third, predicting microstructural parameters using small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS). Fourth, using machine learning methods for predicting mass transport properties of materials, which can be performed much faster than computing the properties through numerical simulations. Fifth, using those prediction models for optimizing and designing materials with desired properties. We will also discuss some interesting machine learning challenges that arise in connection to these examples.

**About the speaker:** Magnus Röding is a scientist at RISE in the department of Agriculture and Food and the Product Design unit in Gothenburg. He is also Adjunct Associate Professor in Mathematical Statistics at the Department of Mathematical Sciences, Chalmers University of Technology. His research interests concern modelling, statistics, and machine learning in connection to materials science and data analysis in imaging, microscopy, and other experimental techniques.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-03-17 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-03-24: Lovisa Hagström, Chalmers
* 2022-03-31: Martin Trimmel, Lund University
* 2022-04-07: Kyunghyun Cho, NYU
* 2022-04-21: Jacob Zwart, U.S. Geological Survey

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

