---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Machine learning for experimental chemical and physical analysis

**Speaker:** Jerk Rönnols, RISE

**Abstract:** This presentation will focus on the application of machine learning methods in the interpretation of data gathered in experiments aimed at describing the shape, structure or molecular composition of materials, via small angle x-ray scattering (SAXS) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR).

The challenges in both of these experimental methods lies in the interpretation of complex data sets, which can be time consuming and cumbersome even for trained experts – which also run the risk of introducing bias to the interpretations. Cases where ML-applications could both accelerate the interpretation and enhance the degree of understanding of a system have been identified.

More specifically, the systems studied and methods applied are as follows: For SAXS, both diluted and solid porous systems were studied. In the diluted systems, classification of the shapes of particles in liquid was investigated, using several classification algorithms. For solid porous systems classification of the type of material was investigated, but also regression analysis parameters describing the shape of the materials.

For the NMR spectroscopic investigations, the investigations were focused on determining the individual concentrations of a group of compounds in a mixture, through image analysis of two-dimensional spectra. There have also been investigations on predicting the spectral appearance from molecular structures.

The results from these studies and their significance for experimental scientists in their everyday work will be discussed.

**About the speaker:** Jerk holds a PhD in Organic Chemistry from Stockholm University. He has been employed by RISE since 2014 and have primarily been working with development of methods for analysis of biobased materials with NMR spectroscopy, and other techniques. He is currently working on development of sustainable multifunctional materials.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-02-10 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-02-24: Dan Stowell, Tilburg University
* 2022-03-10: Megan Stanley, Microsoft Research Cambridge
* 2022-03-17: Magnus Röding, RISE
* 2022-03-24: Lovisa Hagström, Chalmers

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

