---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Translations as semantic mirrors - Representation learning with multilingual data

**Speaker:** Jörg Tiedemann, Helsinki University

**Abstract:** Natural language processing has never been more popular than now and the success of neural NLP paved the way for ever-increasing expectations in general AI research and intelligent system development. The way that large language models can generalize to highly valuable representations of meaning is astonishing. Neural models support and combine sub-tasks of natural language understanding and generation and, in Helsinki, we are especially interested in translation models that naturally combine both sides of NLP research. FoTran is a project that studies the use of massively multilingual machine translation as a backbone for representation learning. The idea is that translations provide a rich signal for semantic abstractions, more than generative or masked language models. Our hypothesis is that increased linguistic diversity leads to better abstractions and we look at the internals of a neural model and their applications in various downstream tasks. In this talk I will present some of our studies that investigate the impact of multilingual training objectives on embedding spaces and their application in downstream tasks, and I will discuss ideas and directions for future work.

**About the speaker:** Jörg Tiedemann is professor of language technology at the Department of Digital Humanities at the University of Helsinki. He received his PhD in computational linguistics for work on bitext alignment and machine translation from Uppsala University before moving to the University of Groningen for 5 years of post-doctoral research on question answering and information extraction. His main research interests are connected with massively multilingual data sets and data-driven natural language processing and he currently runs an ERC-funded project on representation learning and natural language understanding.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-09-29 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-10-13: Tomasz Trzcinski, Warsaw University of Technology, Tooploox, IDEAS NCBR, Jagiellonian University
* 2022-10-20: Hedvig Kjellström, KTH
* 2022-10-27: Ricardo Vinuesa, KTH
* 2022-11-10: Frederik Kratzert, Google

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

