---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Zero-shot learning: Harnessing text descriptions to learn unseen visual classes

**Speaker:** Josephine Sullivan, KTH

**Abstract:** This presentation will have two parts describing recent research I have been involved with. Initially, I will focus on zero-shot learning - learning how to recognise novel visual classes from only text descriptions. This work introduces the Wiki-ImageNet database and shows that incorporating quality text descriptions within existing simple and SOTA zero-shot learning algorithms improves performance. The second part will deal with a more theoretical issue. The function parameterized by most ConvNets is piecewise affine. There is a body of work debating whether the density of regions in the piecewise function of a well-trained over-parametrized network is correlated with its expressiveness. In our recent work, we show empirically for the first time on realistic network architectures that region density may fall short of capturing meaningful nonlinearity of over-parameterized deep networks.

**About the speaker:** Josephine Sullivan is a lecturer in computer vision within the School of Computer Science and Communication (CSC) at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH). Her research efforts are devoted to the field of computer vision, including visual tracking, human/object pose recognition and multi-target tracking. Josephine obtained a D.Phil from Oxford University, Dept. Of Engineering Sciences in 2001 under the supervision of Prof. Andrew Blake.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-02-03 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-02-10: Jerk Rönnols, RISE
* 2022-02-24: Dan Stowell, Tilburg University
* 2022-03-10: Megan Stanley, Microsoft Research Cambridge
* 2022-03-17: Magnus Röding, RISE

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

