---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Deep models of animal listening perceptual tasks

**Speaker:** Dan Stowell, Tilburg University

**Abstract:** Natural soundscapes contain valuable information, readily available, about biodiversity and animal behaviour. Indeed a revolution in acoustic monitoring is already underway, driven by deep learning (DL) and big data, as in other domains. But beyond basic recognition tools, what can we gain from high-resolution DL acoustic tasks? Can we use DL to explore animal perception, and would that help with biodiversity monitoring? I will present recent work on modelling animal acoustic cognitive tasks: song similarity in birds and echolocation flower recognition in bats, using data collected non-invasively from the animals themselves. I will focus on DL training scenarios designed to reflect the cognitive tasks.

REFERENCES:
(1) Morfi et al (2021) JASA, https://asa.scitation.org/doi/10.1121/10.0005475,,,,time
(2) Simon et al (2022) Plos Comp Biol, https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009706

**About the speaker:** Dan Stowell is an Associate Professor of AI & Biodiversity working in the Netherlands (Tilburg University, Naturalis Biodiversity Centre, JADS). His research is about machine listening and computational bioacoustics - which means using computation (especially machine learning) to understand animal sounds and other sound signals.

I develop automatic processes to analyse large amounts of sound
recordings - for example detecting the bird sounds in there and how they
 vary, how they relate to each other, how the birds' behaviour relates
to the sounds they make. The research work is focussed on the machine
learning and signal processing methods that can help with these
questions. I also work with others to apply these methods to
biodiversity monitoring.

I am also a Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute. I work with OpenClimateFix and OpenStreetMap on addressing climate change through solar panel mapping.

I use various machine learning methods, including Gaussian processes, point process models, feature learning... sure, yes, and deep learning too, lots of deep learning.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-02-24 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-03-10: Megan Stanley, Microsoft Research Cambridge
* 2022-03-17: Magnus Röding, RISE
* 2022-03-24: Lovisa Hagström, Chalmers
* 2022-03-31: Martin Trimmel, Lund University

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

