Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Compositional, structured, and interpretable models

**Speaker:** Hedvig Kjellström

**Abstract:** Despite their fantastic achievements in fields such as computer vision and natural language processing, state-of-the-art deep learning approaches differ from human cognition in fundamental ways. While humans can learn new concepts from just a single or few examples, and effortlessly extrapolate new knowledge from concepts learned in other contexts, deep learning methods generally rely on large amounts of data for their learning. Moreover, while humans can make use of contextual knowledge of e.g. laws of nature and insights into how others reason, such information is generally hard to exploit in deep learning methods.

Current deep learning approaches are indeed purposeful for a wide range of applications where there are large volumes of training data and/or well defined problem settings. However, models that learn in a more human-like manner have the potential to be more adaptable to new situations, be more data efficient and also more interpretable to humans - a desirable property e.g. for intelligence augmentation applications with a human in the loop, e.g. medical decision support systems or social robots.

In this talk I will describe a number of projects in my group where we explore disentanglement, temporality, multimodality, and cause-effect representations to accomplish compositional, structured, and interpretable models of the world. 


**About the speaker:** Hedvig Kjellström is a Professor in the Division of Robotics, Perception and Learning at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden. She is also a Principal AI Scientist at Silo AI, Sweden and an affiliated researcher in the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, Germany. She received an MSc in Engineering Physics and a PhD in Computer Science from KTH in 1997 and 2001, respectively, and thereafter worked at the Swedish Defence Research Agency, before returning to a faculty position at KTH. Her present research focuses on methods for enabling artificial agents to interpret human and animal behavior. These ideas are applied in the study of human aesthetic bodily expressions such as in music and dance, modeling and interpreting human communicative behavior, the understanding of animal behavior and cognition, and intelligence amplification - AI systems that collaborate with and help humans.



Hedvig has received several prizes for her research, including the 2010 Koenderink Prize for fundamental contributions in computer vision. She has written around 130 papers in the fields of computer vision, machine learning, robotics, information fusion, cognitive science, speech, and human-computer interaction. She is mostly active within computer vision, where she is an Associate Editor for IEEE TPAMI and regularly serves as Area Chair for the major conferences. 


**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-11-10: Frederik Kratzert, Google
* 2022-11-17: Muhammad Osama, Aptiv
* 2022-11-24: Viktor Larsson, LTH
* 2022-12-01: Sara Beery, MIT

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

