---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Robust Risk Minimization for Statistical Learning from Corrupted Data

**Speaker:** Muhammad Osama, Aptiv

**Abstract:** We consider a general statistical learning problem where an unknown fraction of the training data is corrupted. We develop a robust learning method that only requires specifying an upper bound on the corrupted data fraction. The method minimizes a risk function defined by a non-parametric distribution with unknown probability weights. We derive and analyse the optimal weights and show how they provide robustness against corrupted data. Furthermore, we give a computationally efficient coordinate descent algorithm to solve the risk minimization problem. We demonstrate the wide range applicability of the method, including regression, classification, unsupervised learning and classic parameter estimation, with state-of-the-art performance.

**About the speaker:** I have a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Uppsala University where my research focused on machine learning (ML). During PhD, I have worked on several problem areas within ML e.g. statistical models for prediction in spatio-temporal data, causal inference and robust machine learning. Within robust machine learning, we looked at different aspects e.g. learning models when data is corrupted, when training and test distributions could be shifted, when data comes from different contexts/sources and the context is unknown at test time etc. After graduation, I have started working at Aptiv in Germany where I am applying machine learning to different perception related problems for automobile safety.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-11-17 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-11-24: Viktor Larsson, LTH
* 2022-12-01: Sara Beery, MIT
* 2022-12-08: William Lidberg, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
* 2023-01-12: Mark D. Plumbley, University of Surrey

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

