---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Technical language supervision

**Speaker:** Marcus Liwicki, Frederik Sandin, and Karl Ekström, Luleå University of Technology

**Abstract:** In this presentation we will first give an overview of the recent achievements of the machine learning group at LTU and then dive deep into the young field of Technical Language (TL) Understanding and Supervision. Recent advances of NLP and NLU generated a vast amount of practically useful applications. When it comes to technical language with very domain-specific terms, however, the general deep learning models are not directly applicable. The terms, abbreviations and TL in general, create difficulties, as those do not appear in standard communication. We present algorithms to address these challenges and even benefit from typical structures in technical environments. The practical use is show-cased on an actual technical monitoring systems in process industry.

**About the speaker:** Marcus Liwicki is professor, Chair of Machine Learning and Vice-Rector for Applied AI at Luleå University of Technology and a senior assistant in the University of Fribourg. He received his PhD degree from the University of Bern, Switzerland, in 2007. His research interests include machine learning, pattern recognition, artificial intelligence, human computer interaction, digital humanities, knowledge management, ubiquitous intuitive input devices, document analysis, and graph matching.
Fredrik Sandin is a professor in Machine Learning at the Lulea University of Technology (LTU) in Sweden. He is interested in brain-inspired machine learning, neuromorphic computing, and applications requiring new efficient approaches to sensing, computing, and artificial intelligence. He has a Ph.D. in Physics (2007) from the Swedish Graduate School of Space Technology.
Karl Ekström is a PhD candidate at Luleå University of Technology. He is working in technical language processing and applies novel fundamental research results to real applications in the processing industry.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-05-19 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-06-02: Simon Pfreundschuh, Chalmers University of Technology
* 2022-09-01: Sofia Broomé, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH)
* 2022-09-08: Neil Zeghidour, Google Brain
* 2022-09-15: Martin Hellkvist, Uppsala University

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

