---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** On uncertainty in machine learning

**Speaker:** Fredrik Lindsten, Linköping University

**Abstract:** The rapid development and deployment of machine learning systems is having a profound impact on our society. In recent years these systems have excelled in a wide range of data-driven prediction problems. However, in many cases, such as safety-critical applications, high predictive accuracy is not enough. To make the systems robust we also need to reliably reason about the uncertainties in their predictions. In this talk I will first discuss the notion of calibration as a fundamental requirement for probabilistic predictive models to report reliable uncertainty estimates. I will introduce a kernel-based calibration error that can be used to test for calibration for general probabilistic models. Second, I will discuss how label noise might influence both accuracy and calibration of a probabilistic classifier, and the role of so called robust loss functions in this setting.

**About the speaker:** Fredrik Lindsten is an associate professor and head of division at the division of statistics and machine learning at Linköping University, and a senior lecturer at the department of information technology, Uppsala University. Fredrik received his PhD in automatic control from Linköping University in 2013. During 2014 and 2015 he was a postdoc at the department of engineering at the University of Cambridge. Fredrik has been a visiting researcher at the SAIL lab at University of California, Berkeley and at the department of statistics at the University of Oxford. His research interests are in probabilistic models, uncertainty quantification for machine learning, computational statistics and signal processing.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-05-12 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-05-19: Marcus Liwicki, Frederik Sandin, and Karl Ekström, Luleå University of Technology
* 2022-06-02: Simon Pfreundschuh, Chalmers University of Technology
* 2022-09-01: Sofia Broomé, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH)
* 2022-09-08: Neil Zeghidour, Google Brain

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

