---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Machine learning supporting ecology supporting machine learning

**Speaker:** Devis Tuia, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)

**Abstract:** We live an age full of data. In all areas of society, digital data is now abundant, but also unstructured and pretty much unexploited. Animal ecology is no exception and the lat years have seen an increase of use of digital sensing to observe an undestand the animal realm. In this talk, I will present some success stories at the interface of machine learning and conservation, where camera traps and drone data were used to support censing, population estimation and general understanding of animal behavior. I will then sketch a number of points of synergetic action necessary to strengthen such interface, a necessary step to jointly tackling the biodiversity crisis.

**About the speaker:** Devis completed his PhD at University of Lausanne, Switzerland, where he studied kernel methods for hyperspectral satellite data. He then traveled the world as a postdoc, first at University of València, then at CU Boulder and finally back to EPFL. In 2014, he became assistant professor at University of Zurich, and in 2017 he moved to Wageningen University in the Netherlands, where he was chair of the Geo-Information Science and Remote Sensing Laboratory. Since September 2020, he is back to EPFL, where he leads the Environmental Computational  Science and Earth Observation laboratory (ECEO) in Sion. There, he studies the Earth from above with machine learning and computer vision.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-09-22 15:00

**Zoom link:** [N/A](N/A)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-09-29, 15:00: Jörg Tiedemann, Helsinki University, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-10-13, 15:00: Tomasz Trzcinski, Warsaw University of Technology, Tooploox, IDEAS NCBR, Jagiellonian University, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-10-20, 15:00: Hedvig Kjellström, KTH, **digital and physical: **
* 2022-10-27, 15:00: Ricardo Vinuesa, KTH, **digital and physical: **
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

