---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Fine-grained controllable text generation using non-residual prompting,

**Speaker:** Fredrik Carlsson, RISE Research Institutes of Sweden

**Abstract:** The introduction of immensely large Causal Language Models (CLMs) has rejuvenated the interest in open-ended text generation. However, controlling the generative process for these Transformer-based models is at large an unsolved problem. Earlier work has explored either plug-and-play decoding strategies, or more powerful but blunt approaches such as prompting. There hence currently exists a trade-off between fine-grained control, and the capability for more expressive high-level instructions. To alleviate this trade-off, we propose an encoder-decoder architecture that enables intermediate text prompts at arbitrary time steps. We propose a resource-efficient method for converting a pre-trained CLM into this architecture, and demonstrate its potential on various experiments, including the novel task of contextualized word inclusion. Our method provides strong results on multiple experimental settings, proving itself to be both expressive and versatile.

**About the speaker:** Fredrik Carlsson is a researcher at RISE working on deep learning for language and vision and combinations of the two. He has published papers in venues such as ICLR and ACL on contrastive learning and representation learning for natural language processing.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2022-05-05 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2022-05-12: Fredrik Lindsten, Linköping University
* 2022-05-19: Marcus Liwicki, Frederik Sandin, and Karl Ekström, Luleå University of Technology
* 2022-06-02: Simon Pfreundschuh, Chalmers University of Technology
* 2022-09-01: Sofia Broomé, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH)

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

