---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Unsupervised domain adaptation by learning using privileged information

**Speaker:** Adam Breitholtz, Chalmers University of Technology

**Abstract:** Successful unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) is guaranteed only under strong assumptions such as covariate shift and overlap between input domains. The latter is often violated in high-dimensional applications such as image classification which, despite this challenge, continues to serve as inspiration and benchmark for algorithm development. In this work, we show that access to side information about examples from the source and target domains can help relax these assumptions and increase sample efficiency in learning, at the cost of collecting a richer variable set. We call this domain adaptation by learning using privileged information (DALUPI). Tailored for this task, we propose a simple two-stage learning algorithm inspired by our analysis and a practical end-to-end algorithm for multi-label image classification. In a suite of experiments, including an application to medical image analysis, we demonstrate that incorporating privileged information in learning can reduce errors in domain transfer compared to classical learning.

**About the speaker:** Adam Breitholtz is a third-year PhD students in the DSAI division supervised by Fredrik D. Johansson. He has a MSc in Engineering Mathematics from Chalmers University of Technology. Adam’s research is focused on the theory of Domain Adaptation and the underlying assumptions related to that.

**Location:** RISE Gothenburg Office (Arvid Hedvalls Backe 4), or online using Zoom.

**Date:** 2023-09-07 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=TlovOWE1KzFJbzk0QW9QV2JEVEordz09](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=TlovOWE1KzFJbzk0QW9QV2JEVEordz09)


This seminar will have an in-person presence at RISE Gothenburg Office (Arvid Hedvalls Backe 4). Make sure that you arrive in good time.


**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-09-14, 15:00: Virginia Smith, CMU
* 2023-09-21, 15:00: Nico Lang, University of Copenhagen, **digital and physical: RISE Lund Office (Scheelevägen 17)**
* 2023-09-28, 15:00: Johan Östman, AI Sweden, **digital and physical: RISE Gothenburg Office (Arvid Hedvalls backe 4)**
* 2023-10-05, 15:00: Klaus-Robert Müller, TU Berlin
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

