---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Machine Learning and AI for the Sciences — Towards Understanding

**Speaker:** Klaus-Robert Müller, TU Berlin

**Abstract:** In recent years, Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods have begun to play a more and more enabling role in the sciences and in industry. In particular, the advent of large and/or complex data corpora has given rise to new technological challenges and possibilities. In his talk, Müller will touch upon the topic of ML applications in the sciences, in particular in neuroscience, medicine and physics. He will also discuss possibilities for extracting information from machine learning models to further our understanding by explaining nonlinear ML models. E.g. Machine Learning Models for Quantum Chemistry can, by applying interpretable ML, contribute to furthering chemical understanding. Finally, Müller will briefly outline perspectives and limitations.

**About the speaker:** Klaus-Robert Müller has been a professor of computer science at Technische Universität Berlin since 2006; at the same time he is directing rsp. co-directing the Berlin Machine Learning Center and the Berlin Big Data Center and most recently BIFOLD. He studied physics in Karlsruhe from1984 to 1989 and obtained his Ph.D. degree in computer science at Technische Universität Karlsruhe in 1992. After completing a postdoctoral position at GMD FIRST in Berlin, he was a research fellow at the University of Tokyo from 1994 to 1995. In 1995, he founded the Intelligent Data Analysis group at GMD-FIRST (later Fraunhofer FIRST) and directed it until 2008. From 1999 to 2006, he was a professor at the University of Potsdam. From 2012 he has been Distinguished Professor at Korea University in Seoul. In 2020/2021 he spent his sabbatical at Google Brain as a Principal Scientist. Among others, he was awarded the Olympus Prize for Pattern Recognition (1999), the SEL Alcatel Communication Award (2006), the Science Prize of Berlin by the Governing Mayor of Berlin (2014), the Vodafone Innovations Award (2017), Pattern Recognition Best Paper award (2020), Digital Signal Processing Best Paper award (2022). In 2012, he was elected member of the German National Academy of Sciences-Leopoldina, in 2017 of the Berlin Brandenburg Academy of Sciences, in 2021 of the German National Academy of Science and Engineering and also in 2017 external scientific member of the Max Planck Society. From 2019 on he became an ISI Highly Cited researcher in the cross-disciplinary area. His research interests are intelligent data analysis and Machine Learning in the sciences (Neuroscience (specifically Brain-Computer Interfaces, Physics, Chemistry) and in industry.

**Location:** location, or online using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=M0RJVE5XNVRCQlFCZ0tXS2xhRkxrUT09](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=M0RJVE5XNVRCQlFCZ0tXS2xhRkxrUT09)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-10-19: Valentin De Bortoli, ENS Ulm, Paris
* 2023-11-02: Jonas Hellgren, RISE
* 2023-11-09: Nataša Sladoje or Joakim Lindblad (TBD), Uppsala University

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

