---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** On the Interpretability of Regularisation for Neural Networks Through Model Gradient Similarity

**Speaker:** Vincent Szolnoky, Chalmers University of Technology

**Abstract:** Most complex machine learning and modelling techniques are prone to over-ﬁtting and may subsequently generalise poorly to future data. Artiﬁcial neural networks are no different in this regard and, despite having a level of implicit regularisation when trained with gradient descent, often require the aid of explicit regularisers. In this talk, a new framework named Model Gradient Similarity (MGS) shall be introduced, that (1) serves as a metric of regularisation, which can be used to monitor neural network training, (2) adds insight into how explicit regularisers, while derived from widely different principles, operate via the same mechanism underneath by increasing MGS, and (3) provides the basis for a new regularisation scheme which exhibits excellent performance, especially in challenging settings such as high levels of label noise or limited sample sizes.

**About the speaker:** Vincent Szolnoky is an industrial PhD student at Chalmers University of Technology and Centiro. His research is centered around training and regularisation of Neural Networks. Most recently, Vincent's paper on Model Gradient Similarity and its connection to regularisation for Neural Networks was accepted to NeurIPS 2022, one of the largest machine learning conferences, where it was well received and garnered much attention.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-02-09: Joakim Nivre, Erik Ylipää, and Olof Mogren, RISE
* 2023-02-23: Alexander Ilin, Aalto University
* 2023-03-09: Shay Cohen, University of Edinburgh
* 2023-03-16: Stefanos Georganos, Karlstad University/KTH

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

