---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
  Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** ChatGPT and other large language models (LLMs)

**Speaker:** Joakim Nivre, Erik Ylipää, and Olof Mogren, RISE

**Abstract:** Chat GPT has been the AI-talk-of-the-town in 2022. It has demonstrated an impressive fluency, and produced examples of dialog that far surpass the state-of-the-art in language models trained for dialog. The system was presented by OpenAI in late November 2022, and in contrast to other recent releases from them, this one was not accompanied by a research paper. In this seminar, we will have a presentation where Olof Mogren goes through what we know about the technology behind Chat GPT. We will then try a new format for Learning Machines: after the introduction, we will have a panel discussion with Joakim Nivre and Erik Ylipää, discussing some of the aspects of Chat GPT and other large language models. How do they work and how are they trained? How have they affected AI and NLP research? What will be the effects in the future? Finally, we will open the floor to questions and discussions from and with the audience.

**About the speaker:** Joakim Nivre is a research leader in natural language processing at RISE Research Institutes of Sweden, and professor of computational linguistics at Uppsala University. Erik Ylipää is a researcher at RISE with extensive expertise in transformer-based models. Olof Mogren is a research leader within applied artificial intelligence and deep learning at RISE.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=NjFPQzFRbDBFc3QrZ3lkS21OSFFwZz09](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=NjFPQzFRbDBFc3QrZ3lkS21OSFFwZz09)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-02-23: Alexander Ilin, Aalto University
* 2023-03-09: Shay Cohen, University of Edinburgh
* 2023-03-16: Stefanos Georganos, Karlstad University/KTH
* 2023-03-23: Gabrielle Flood, Lund University

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

