---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Evaluating Large-Scale Learning Systems

**Speaker:** Virginia Smith, CMU

**Abstract:** To deploy machine learning models in practice it is critical to have a way to reliably evaluate their effectiveness. Unfortunately, the scale and complexity of modern machine learning systems makes it difficult to provide faithful evaluations and gauge performance across potential deployment scenarios. In this talk I discuss our work addressing challenges in large-scale ML evaluation. First, I explore the problem of evaluating models trained in federated networks of devices, where issues of device subsampling, heterogeneity, and privacy can introduce noise in the evaluation process and make it challenging to provide reliable evaluations. Second, I present ReLM, a system for validating and querying large language models (LLMs). Although LLMs have been touted for their ability to generate natural-sounding text, there is a growing need to evaluate the behavior of LLMs in light of issues such as data memorization, bias, and inappropriate language. ReLM poses LLM validation queries as regular expressions to enable faster and more effective LLM evaluation.

**About the speaker:** Virginia Smith is an assistant professor in the Machine Learning Department at Carnegie Mellon University. Her research spans machine learning, optimization, and distributed systems. Virginia’s current work addresses challenges related to optimization, privacy, and robustness in distributed settings to enable trustworthy federated learning at scale. Virginia’s work has been recognized by an NSF CAREER Award, MIT TR35 Innovator Award, Intel Rising Star Award, and faculty awards from Google, Apple, and Meta. Prior to CMU, Virginia was a postdoc at Stanford University and received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from UC Berkeley.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2023-09-14 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=MWwvQXpId012U2pNMDc3TlgrSXQ5UT09](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=MWwvQXpId012U2pNMDc3TlgrSXQ5UT09)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2023-09-21, 15:00: Nico Lang, University of Copenhagen, **digital and physical: RISE Lund Office (Scheelevägen 17)**
* 2023-09-28, 15:00: Johan Östman, AI Sweden, **digital and physical: RISE Gothenburg Office (Arvid Hedvalls backe 4)**
* 2023-10-05, 15:00: Klaus-Robert Müller, TU Berlin
* 2023-10-19, 15:00: Valentin De Bortoli, Google Deepmind
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

