---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** AI-SAXS: Decoding Structural Complexity with Intelligent Scattering Analysis

**Speaker:** Smita Chakraborty, RISE

**Abstract:** The AI-SAXS project explores the possibilities of using machine learning to interpret the information in the small angle X-ray scattering curves together with project partners AstraZeneca and TetraPak. The model developed within the project will be trained on synthetic data and real experimental data from the Max IV synchrotron laboratory in Lund, Sweden. By training the model on thousands of SAXS spectra of representative models, it learns to interpret real samples that are of interest for the experiments in the project. One of the goals is to make the models and working methods as generalizable as possible given the diversity of the project focus samples which are primarily cellulose for TetraPak and lipid nanoparticles in the case of AstraZeneca. Both the work process and type of neural networks are evaluated in the project to find the best methods for these different materials.

**About the speaker:** Smita Chakraborty is a researcher at the Computer Science Department at RISE. She earned her Ph.D. in Theoretical Particle Physics from Lund University in 2022, where her doctoral thesis focused on extending the Lund String Model for heavy ion collisions at particle colliders such as CERN. Her current research interests are physics-informed machine learning, ML for earth observation, and quantum computation.

**Location:** Scheelevägen 17, Lund, or online using Zoom.

**Date:** 2024-09-05 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=N9ubZA8VW4tafcuaRtvSQS9Nmc8YTz.1](https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=N9ubZA8VW4tafcuaRtvSQS9Nmc8YTz.1)


This seminar will have an in-person presence at the RISE office in Lund, located at [Scheelevägen 17](https://maps.app.goo.gl/6uW4R8HYKZgwxe9L7), IDEON Science park, house Beta5, fourth floor. Make sure that you arrive in good time and knock at the door.


**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2024-09-19: Mélisande Teng, MILA and Universite de Montreal
* 2024-09-26: Charlie Fieseler, University of Vienna
* 2024-10-03: Jakob Ambsdorf, University of Copenhagen & Pioneer Centre for AI, **digital and physical: Scheelevägen 17, Lund**
* 2024-10-17: Matthias Obst, University of Gothenburg, **digital and physical: Lindholmsallén 10, Gothenburg**
* All seminars are 15:00 CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

