---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

This seminar is a collaboration between RISE and Climate AI Nordics -- [climateainordics.com](https://climateainordics.com/).

**Title:** Frontiers in machine learning for weather forecasting

**Speaker:** Joel Oskarsson, Linköping University

**Abstract:** Recent years have seen rapid progress in using machine learning models for weather forecasting. These models show impressive performance, matching or even outperforming existing physics-based models, while running in a fraction of the time. This is fundamentally and rapidly changing the landscape of weather forecasting today. In this talk I will discuss the factors that enabled this paradigm shift, the core machine learning methods used and the research questions at the bleeding edge of machine learning for weather. In particular I will focus on how current methods can be extended to regional and probabilistic forecasting. For regional forecasting I will showcase graph-based methods for building limited area weather forecasting models. I will also discuss how generative machine learning methods can enable probabilistic forecasting, giving much-needed estimates of uncertainty and allowing for predicting extreme weather events.

**About the speaker:** Joel Oskarsson got his MSc in computer science and engineering from Linköping University in 2020, where he is now a PhD student working on probabilistic machine learning. In his research he develops machine learning methods for data with spatial-, temporal- and graph-structure, including combinations of these. He is also interested in applications of these methods to earth system modeling. https://joeloskarsson.github.io/

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2024-11-07 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=AHgzB8G4YI5j8yHmwfB1rLBiHRvXF8.1](https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=AHgzB8G4YI5j8yHmwfB1rLBiHRvXF8.1)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2024-11-21: Alp Kucukelbir, Columbia University
* 2024-11-28: Alireza Taheri Dehkordi, Lund University, **digital and physical: Scheelevägen 17, Lund**
* 2025-01-16: Oscar Täckström, Sana Labs, **digital and physical: Isafjordsgatan 22, Kista**
* 2025-01-23: Newton Mwai Kinyanjui, Chalmers University of Technology, **digital and physical: Lindholmsallén 10, Gothenburg**
* All seminars are 15:00 CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

