---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

**Title:** Symmetry and Structure in Deep RL – State of the art, challenges, and future directions

**Speaker:** Elise van der Pol, Microsoft Research

**Abstract:** In this talk, I will discuss symmetry and structure in single and multi agent reinforcement learning. I will first discuss MDP Homomorphic Networks a class of networks that ties transformations of observations to transformations of  decisions. Such symmetries are ubiquitous in deep reinforcement learning, but often ignored in earlier approaches. Enforcing this prior knowledge into policy and value networks allows us to reduce the size of the solution space, a necessity in problems with large numbers of possible observations. I will showcase the benefits of our approach on agents in virtual environments. I will follow up with the current SOTA, discussing other notable papers, open challenges in the field and potential future directions and applications worth looking at.

**About the speaker:** Dr. Elise van der Pol, a Senior Researcher at Microsoft Research Amsterdam, focuses on the field of AI4Science, with specific research interests in structure, symmetry, and equivariance within reinforcement learning and machine learning. Her current work involves leveraging reinforcement learning and deep learning techniques for molecular simulation. Prior to joining Microsoft Research Amsterdam (MSR), Dr. van der Pol completed her PhD on the topic of Symmetry and Structure in Deep Reinforcement Learning in the Amsterdam Machine Learning Lab, collaborating with researchers such as Max Welling (UvA), Frans Oliehoek (TU Delft), and Herke van Hoof (UvA).

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2024-03-07 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=UVZIZ0Z2WFkrNWRDcHBrTlVFWG1OQT09](https://rise.zoom.us/j/208117140?pwd=UVZIZ0Z2WFkrNWRDcHBrTlVFWG1OQT09)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2024-03-14, 15:00: Santiago Martinez Balvanera, University College London
* 2024-03-28, 15:00: Yonghao Xu, Linköping University
* 2024-04-04, 16:00: Karsten Kreis, NVIDIA Toronto AI Lab
* 2024-04-11, 15:00: Alouette van Hove, University of Oslo
* All times are in CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

