---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

This seminar is a collaboration between RISE and Climate Change AI Nordics -- [ccainordics.com](https://ccainordics.com/).

**Title:** Artificial Intelligence for Climate Change Mitigation

**Speaker:** Alp Kucukelbir, Columbia University

**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to make very significant contributions to climate change mitigation. The complexity and scale of the challenge is broad. In this talk, I break down opportunities for AI to effect incremental and transformational change across multiple sectors, focusing on industries with large carbon footprints.

I highlight barriers and risks to the adoption of AI, including the carbon footprint of AI usage worldwide. I focus on the multiple definitions (and ultimate importance) of &quot;trust in AI&quot; and its impact on the integration of AI into complex workflows. 

This talk is for AI practitioners looking to understand how AI fits into the bigger picture of climate change. I highlight opportunities and challenges in each sector that I hope will motivate collaboration across academia and industry.

**About the speaker:** Alp is chief scientist at Fero Labs (factory optimization software for industrial decarbonization) and adjunct professor of computer science at Columbia University (teaching &quot;Machine Learning &amp; Climate&quot;). He recently co-authored a report &quot;Artificial Intelligence for Climate Change Roadmap (Second Edition)&quot;, which was launched at COP29. He holds a Ph.D. from Yale University, where his research won a best thesis award. He is part of the core team on entrepreneurship at Climate Change AI.

**Location:** This is an online seminar. Connect using Zoom.

**Date:** 2024-11-21 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=SNUhf01l7KaL2jNoKNWk8baB5pVMEM.1](https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=SNUhf01l7KaL2jNoKNWk8baB5pVMEM.1)

**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2024-11-28: Alireza Taheri Dehkordi, Lund University, **digital and physical: Scheelevägen 17, Lund**
* 2024-12-12: Amal Nammouchi, Karlstad University and AfriClimate AI
* 2025-01-16: Oscar Täckström, Sana Labs
* 2025-01-23: Newton Mwai Kinyanjui, Chalmers University of Technology
* All seminars are 15:00 CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

