---
layout: default
metatags: "<meta name=\"robots\" content=\"noindex,nofollow\" />"
---
 
Welcome to this week's Learning Machines seminar.

This seminar is a collaboration between RISE and Climate AI Nordics -- [climateainordics.com](https://climateainordics.com/).

**Title:** Tech-informed nature conservation - are we there yet?

**Speaker:** Abdulhakim Abdi, Lund University

**Abstract:** In the face of a global biodiversity crisis, the ability to efficiently monitor ecological change across space and time has never been more accessible. Advances in satellite remote sensing and AI have opened new frontiers for biodiversity monitoring by offering powerful tools to analyze vast datasets, automate species detection, and improve disturbance tracking. While these technologies hold great promise, their widespread adoption faces key challenges, including data accessibility, environmental costs, model interpretability, and the need for stronger interdisciplinary collaboration. This presentation explores the opportunities and limitations of tech-driven nature conservation, assessing whether current developments are sufficient to bridge critical knowledge gaps. The integration of remote sensing with AI brings us closer to a more data-informed approach to managing the living world - but are we truly ready to harness its full potential?

**About the speaker:** I am a geographer and environmental scientist specializing in the interaction between natural ecosystems and human activity. My research focuses on leveraging remote sensing, machine learning, and spatial analysis to improve biodiversity monitoring and conservation efforts. Currently, I am working on mapping tree species composition using satellite imagery to enhance forest management strategies. I have a PhD in Physical Geography and Ecosystem Science and an MSc in Geospatial Technologies. Currently, I am a senior researcher at the Center for Environmental and Climate Science, Lund University.

**Location:** RISE Lund Office (Scheelevägen 17), or online using Zoom.

**Date:** 2025-02-20 15:00

**Zoom link:** [https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=WLNbIraFLQdgnCdXG2mqlNrYbSCJUN.1](https://rise.zoom.us/j/69691371971?pwd=WLNbIraFLQdgnCdXG2mqlNrYbSCJUN.1)


This seminar will have an in-person presence at RISE Lund Office (Scheelevägen 17). Make sure that you arrive in good time.


**Upcoming seminars:**

* 2025-03-06: Atakan Aral, University of Vienna
* 2025-03-20: Oriol Nieto, Adobe
* 2025-03-27: María J. Molina, University of Maryland
* 2025-04-03: Abdul Shaamala, Queensland University of Technology
* All seminars are 15:00 CET.

More information and coming seminars: [https://ri.se/lm-sem](https://ri.se/lm-sem)

-- The Learning Machines Team

